In this video, I will show you how to
make cloud code more efficient using the
free tier of the Gemini CLI. If you're
new here, welcome. My name is Natalie.
I'm a professional software engineer and
in my free time, I love to dabble with
vibe coding. We will start with a quick
overview of what you need before you can
integrate Gemini CLI into cloud code.
Then we will generate a cloudmd file
specific to your codebase. look over a
cloudmd file from a Reddit post where I
got all of this from and then we will
get cloud code to update the generated
cloudmd file with the specific Gemini
commands. Gemini CLI was just recently
released a few weeks ago as of the
filming of this video. It's a wonderful
tool. It has an incredibly large context
window. The Gemini API provides a free
tier with 100 requests per day using
Gemini 2.5 Pro which is amazing. It
gives you control over which model you
use. And of course, you can always
access higher rate limits with a paid
plan. Before you can use it, make sure
you have NodeJS version 20 or higher
installed on your system and then run
the CLI installation script. Or you can
simply install it with npm
installed-google/geminite-cl.
But in this video, we will let Claude
start it up for us. For me, the
discovery came from finding this really
funny thread on Reddit called Gemini CLA
is awesome, but only when you make cloud
code use it as its And it makes
some great points about how if you just
pipe in Gemini CLI into the cloudmd
file, you can get so much more use out
of both cloud code and Gemini CLI and
overall it will be much better for your
product. Here I'm just going to start up
a new Astro project. Here I can start up
cloud and now I can init the cloud.md
file with /init. And here it's giving us
an outline what it's put in the
cloud.mmd file. So let's take a quick
look. I've created the claw.mmd file
with guidance for future instances of
cloud code working with this project.
The file includes essential commands all
the key npm scripts for development
building and previewing architecture
overview filebased routing system
component structure and how Astro
components work. directory organization
and their purposes. TypeScript
configuration details. The document
focuses on the highlevel architecture
workflow pattern specific to Astro
avoiding generic advice while providing
the essential information needed to be
productive in this codebase. Let's take
a look.
Project overview development commands.
Astro CLI commands. This is great.
Architecture and structure. So a lot of
this stuff the architecture analysis can
be done with Gemini. So you're saving
your cloud code tokens which is what I
prefer to do especially because cloud
code becomes overloaded a lot recently.
So I find it really helpful to use a
different CLI for that. Let me paste the
cloudd file that I found on Reddit into
my repo and let's have a look at it
here. So basically we are directing
cloud to use Gemini CLI for large code
bases and multiple files that might
exceed context limits. It includes
examples how to analyze a specific file,
multiple files, entire directory,
multiple directories, current directory
or use the d-all files flag. Then it
also directs Claude to use Gemini to
verify if a feature is implemented which
is incredibly useful. Ah, and here we
go. When to use Gemini CLI? Use
Gemini-P1.
Analyzing entire code bases or large
directories. Comparing multiple large
files. Need to understand projectwide
patterns or architecture.
Current context window is insufficient
for the task. Working with files totally
more than 100 kilobytes, which honestly
isn't that much. Okay, important notes.
I really like this one. Gemini's context
window can handle entire code bases that
would overflow Claude's context. So,
it's really interesting that we are
telling Claude this directly. Now that
we have both the generated claude.md for
the specific repository and the custom
one, let's see how we can mish mash them
together. Let's say read our custom
Reddit CloudMD file
and update the generated CloudMD file
with the Gemini specific commands. Make
no other code changes. I love these.
It's taking a while. All right, here we
go. I've successfully updated the
cloudmomd file by adding the gem cla
section from the reddit file. The update
includes all the things that we talked
about. Let's take a look. I should have
probably committed this the first.
That's okay. Ah, here we go. Here it is.
Using Gemini CLI for large codebase
analysis. Okay. And now that we've added
the Gemini CLI to CloudMD, it will
usually use it, but sometimes it does
forget, I noticed. So what I like to do
is just prefix my commands with use
Gemini 2. Especially if I'm implementing
a bigger feature that would affect the
whole codebase. Let's say I want to
implement authentication. So I would
need to protect routes and current
components and all of that. I would say
something like use Gemini to analyze the
current architecture and plan how to
implement applicationwide authentication
to protect all routes except for/lo.
And then I usually say, "Put this plan
into a markdown file and pause for my
feedback." Learn more about how to plan
better with cloud code and markdown
files. Watch this next video.
[Music]